# Interview Prep Week: Day 1

> 681 | Unit 6, Sprint 8, Module 1

* [Problem Solving](#problem-solving)
  * [Questions](#questions)

## Problem solving

* Treat problems as puzzles to be solved
* Keep attacking the problem
* Go for a walk, then attack again
* Every minute spent problem-solving is a minute well-spent
* People who are good at something failed at it hundreds or thousands of times
  * Fail early, fail often; learn from every failure
* Go easy on yourself — no one is born good at development
* Reflect: how would you make your working solution better?

> Reps solve all problems!

### Questions

> During an interview it's not possible to walk away from the code for a few
> minutes. How to clear your head in this situation?

Think out loud so that the interviewer can know how you got stuck at where you
are, and even could be good to describe it even more.

> Practicing with an audience

Find an audience to practice in front of / with.

## Steps to Victory

1. Relax

> Do whatever it takes!

Suggestions:

* Pretend the interviewer is a friend
* Pretend the interviewer is a coworker already, came to you for help
* Pretend you're teaching the problem and the solution
* If you freeze up, go back to U-P-E-R

2. Use UPER

Pressure is ON! Your brain is _freaking out, man_.

That feeling of fear...

...train yourself to notice it. When it comes up: stop, take a breath, and loop back
back around to Understand, Plan, Execute, Reflect.

> 1. Understand

* Describe / translate the problem into your own words
* Pay attention to any suggestions the interviewer gives
* Clarify everything that doesn't make sense
* If you can't teach the problem to someone, keep Understanding

> 2. Plan

* Describe your solution at a conceptual level first
  * Don't outline code yet; think big picture
* If coding live, work / talk through the concepts, not the code
* Think out loud!
* Drill down as you see fit or when asked
* Teach the solution

> 3. Execute

* Write code
* Or, look at code if you've already written it
* Explain big chunks first (tie back to big picture concepts)
* Then, get to the details
* Interviewer should be able to see how the code corresponds to the descriptions you
    provided

> 4. Reflect

* Look for inefficiencies
* Look for anything you'd have done differently
* Talk about it
  * The interviewer can see the flaws
  * Best if you point them out as well
  * Show them you understand what you just wrote

## Sample Interview

This problem was to reverse a linked list.
Can you tell me how you solved it?

* Talk about the why behind the code, not the how
  * Don't just walk through code line by line
* A good place to start is with inputs and outputs?
* During the execute phase is when you talk about the code
  * Be sure to hit the main points described in previous steps
* Reflect
  * Go back over code and improve as needed
  * Make more concise and readable, consistent, etc.
  * Comments shouldn't just say what the next line of code does

### Summary

1. Relax
2. UPER is your best friend
3. Teach the interviewer
4. Make your code look sharp

## 11:10 - 11:15 ~ Break

> 11:15 ~ Part II

## HackerRank

* Interview preparation kit
* Warm-up challenges
  * Repeated String problem
* U :: Understand the problem on your own terms first.
  * Make up your own example to illustrate the problem, then run through it.

### Problems for the week

Sean will post the questions that we'll be doing this week, per Owen's request, in case
anyone wants to work ahead, etc.

> Problems for the week (after today)

* [Two Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/)
* [Implement Queue with Stacks](https://leetcode.com/problems/implement-queue-using-stacks/)
* [Merge Two Sorted Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/)
* [Decode String](https://leetcode.com/problems/decode-string/)
* [Find the Duplicate Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-duplicate-number/)
* [Search Rotated Sorted Arr](https://leetcode.com/problems/search-in-rotated-sorted-array/)

## Behavioral interview practice

1. Tell me a little bit about yourself

Jack of many trades, master of some. I love a good technical problem or project to dig
my teeth into and a good philosophical conversation to shake things up. I was homeschooled
until 7th grade, which gave me a deep appreciation for self-directed learning and a
belief that learning is a life-long endeavor.

> Talk about educational + professional experience

* Economics in college (Excel, data analysis and visualization, predictive modeling)
* Software consultant at IQMS (Project, team, and expectations management, SQL)

2. What kind of work environment are you looking for?

* Relatively flexible and informal rules and culture
* Collaborative
  * Across disciplines and seniority levels

3. What are your strengths and weaknesses as a developer?

When I get into a project or topic that I find interesting, I will put everything into
it. This is both a strength and a weakness. I believe it to be a strength because I will
exhaust all options when solving a problem, or go all-in on learning a new topic or
skill.

"Your patience is of legend." -Philip, 2020

It can also be a weakness at times when I get too far into the weeds or
find it difficult to let things go unsolved.

4. Tell me about a group project that you are passionate about?

Trash Panda

* Team: 11 total, 4 DS/ML
* Object detection for waste items -> how to dispose of them properly
* Built and managed a data pipeline to gather and annotate 80k images
* Implemented a pre-trained image segmentation model to automate labeling
* Trained a YOLOv3 computer vision / object detection model using 80k images
* Deployed a Flask API using Docker on AWS Elastic Beanstalk

5. Where do you see yourself in 3-5 years?

I would like to be managing a small team on a larger project that's conducting research
and/or developing products on the cutting edge of machine / deep learning, exploring how
the cutting edge can be used to benefit society writ large.

## Technical interview practice

1. LeetCode: Contains Duplicates
2. LeetCode: Add Two Numbers (Linked List)














